# CAPSTONE Travel App

This is the final project of the Front End Web Developer Nanodegree program offered by Udacity. The goal of this project is to build a web tool that allows users to calculate remaining time until their trip, review weather forecast for their destination and get a destination picture. 

Note: Extend your Project Further - voluntary addition
As a voluntary addition, I chose following: Pull in an image for the country from Pixabay API when the entered location brings up no results (good for obscure localities).

## How to Run the App

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Install the necessary dependencies by running `npm install --legacy-peer-deps` in the project directory.
3. Obtain an API key from Weatherbit and Pixabay + a user name from geoNames (they don't require a key) and create a .env folder in the root directory of the project with following formatting:
USER_NAME1=<your username>
API_KEY2=<weatherbit api key>
API_KEY3=<pixabay api key>
5. Start the app by running `npm run start`.
6. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4000` to access the app.

## How to Run the tests

1. Make sure you're using node 18.16.1 to run the test scripts to avoid Jest syntax errors
2. run the command npm run test

## Dependencies

The project uses the following dependencies:

- Node.js
- Express.js
- Webpack
- GeoNames, WeatherBit and Pixabay API

To run the project without any errors, make sure to use the Node version v14.21.3 for this project. (It won't work with the current version.)

Make sure to use following versions to avoid any errors:

cross-env: ^7.0.3,
dotenv: ^8.2.0,
express: ^4.17.1,
jest-fetch-mock: ^3.0.3,
webpack: ^4.35.3,
webpack-cli: ^3.3.5,
@babel/core: ^7.13.15,
@babel/plugin-transform-modules-commonjs: ^7.13.8,
@babel/preset-env: ^7.13.15,
babel-loader: ^8.2.2,
body-parser: ^1.19.0,
clean-webpack-plugin: ^3.0.0,
cors: ^2.8.5,
css-loader: ^5.0.1,
html-webpack-plugin: ^3.2.0,
jest: ^26.6.3,
mini-css-extract-plugin: ^1.3.5,
node-fetch: ^2.6.1,
node-sass: ^5.0.0,
optimize-css-assets-webpack-plugin: ^5.0.4,
sass: ^1.32.8,
sass-loader: ^10.1.1,
style-loader: ^2.0.0,
terser-webpack-plugin: ^5.1.1,
webpack-dev-server: ^3.11.2,
workbox-webpack-plugin: ^6.1.5


## Project Structure

The project follows a structure similar to the one taught in the lessons. The main files and folders in the project are:

- `src` folder: Contains the source code for the app.
    - `server.js`: The server file that handles API requests and serves the app.
    - `index.js`: The entry point for the client-side JavaScript code.
    - `styles` folder: Contains the SCSS files for styling the app.
    - `views` folder: Contains the HTML file for the app's user interface.
- `dist` folder: Contains the bundled and optimized code generated by Webpack for production.

## Testing

The project uses Jest for testing. To run the tests, use the command `npm run test`.

## Offline Functionality

The project includes service workers for offline functionality. The Workbox plugin is implemented in `webpack.prod.js`, and the service worker is called from `index.html`. After visiting the site once, you should be able to turn off the server, refresh the page, and still see content.

## Interactions

The app includes a form for date and destination input. When you click on "save trip", you'll generate the trip info and the destination picture. The delete trip button is there but is not wired to any functionality, as this was not obligatory.